.TH PULL\-PKG "1" "28 August 2017" "ubuntu-dev-tools"

.SH NAME
pull\-pkg \- download a package for Debian, Ubuntu, UCA, or a PPA

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pull\-pkg \fR[\fIoptions\fR]\fR <\fIpackage name\fR>
[\fIrelease\fR|\fIversion\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpull\-pkg\fR downloads the specified \fIversion\fR of
<\fIpackage name\fR>, or the latest version from the
specified \fIrelease\fR.  To request a version from
a particular pocket say \fIrelease\fB\-\fIpocket\fR (with a magic
\fB\-release\fR for only the release pocket).
If no \fIversion\fR or \fIrelease\fR is specified, the latest version in
the development release will be downloaded.

There are convenience scripts that set pull type and distribution
appropriately: these are
\fBpull\-lp\-source\fR, \fBpull\-lp\-debs\fR, \fBpull\-lp\-ddebs\fR,
and \fBpull\-lp\-udebs\fR, which all pull Ubuntu packages;
\fBpull\-debian\-source\fR, \fBpull\-debian\-debs\fR, \fBpull\-debian\-ddebs\fR,
and \fBpull\-debian\-udebs\fR, which all pull Debian packages;
\fBpull\-uca\-source\fR, \fBpull\-uca\-debs\fR, \fBpull\-uca\-ddebs\fR,
and \fBpull\-uca\-udebs\fR, which all pull Ubuntu Cloud Archive packages;
and \fBpull\-ppa\-source\fR, \fBpull\-ppa\-debs\fR, \fBpull\-ppa\-ddebs\fR,
and \fBpull\-ppa\-udebs\fR, which all pull from a specified Personal Package
Archive on Launchpad.  Each script pulls the file type in its name, i.e.
\fIsource\fR, \fIdebs\fR, \fIddebs\fR, or \fIudebs\fR.

.SH OPTIONS
Listed below are the command line options for pull\-pkg:
.TP
.I package name
This is name of the package to downloaded.
You can use either the source package name, or binary package name.
.TP
.I version
This is the version of the package to downloaded.
.TP
.I release
This is the release to downloaded from.
For debian, you can use either the release name like \fBjessie\fR
or \fBsid\fR, or you can use the special release names \fBunstable\fR,
\fBstable\fR, or \fBtesting\fR.
For ubuntu, you can use either the release name like \fBxenial\fR
or the release-pocket like \fBxenial-proposed\fR.
For ubuntu cloud archive (uca) you can use either the uca release
name like \fBmitaka\fR or the ubuntu and uca release names like
\fBtrusty-mitaka\fR.  Defaults to the current development release.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display a help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Be verbose about what is being done.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-download\-only
Do not extract the source package (applies only to source packages).
.TP
.B \-m \fIMIRROR\fR, \fB\-\-mirror\fR=\fIMIRROR\fR
Use the specified mirror server.
Should be in the form \fBhttp://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu\fR or
\fBhttp://deb.debian.org/debian\fR.  If not specified or if the
package is not found on the specified mirror, this will fall
back to the default mirror(s) and/or mirror(s) from environment
variables, and then will fall back to Launchpad or Debian Snapshot.
This can be specified multiple times to try multiple mirrors.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-conf
Do not use mirrors from the default configuration, or from
any environment variables.
.TP
.B \-a \fIARCH\fR, \fB\-\-arch\fR=\fIARCH\fR
Get binary packages from the \fIARCH\fR architecture.
Defaults to the local architecture, if it can be deteected.
.TP
.B \-p \fIPULL\fR, \fB\-\-pull\fR=\fIPULL\fR
What to pull: \fBsource\fR, \fBdebs\fR, \fBddebs\fR, \fBudebs\fR,
or \fBlist\fR.  The \fBlist\fR action only lists all a package's
source and binary files, but does not actually download any.
Defaults to \fBsource\fR.
.TP
.B \-D \fIDISTRO\fR, \fB\-\-distro\fR=\fIDISTRO\fR
Pull from: \fBdebian\fR, \fBuca\fR, \fBubuntu\fR, or a \fBppa\fR.
\fBlp\fR can be used instead of \fBubuntu\fR.
Any string containing \fBcloud\fR can be used instead of \fBuca\fR.
If pulling from a ppa, you must specify the PPA.  Defaults to \fBubuntu\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-ppa\fR=ppa:\fIUSER/NAME\fR
Applies only when \fBdistro\fR is \fIppa\fR.  Can be provided either as
a value to the \fB\-\-ppa\fR option parameter, or as a plain option
(like \fIrelease\fR or \fIversion\fR).  When specified as a plain option,
the form must be \fBppa:USER/NAME\fR; when specified as a value to the
\fB\-\-ppa\fR option parameter, the leading \fBppa:\fR is optional.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
All of the \fBCONFIGURATION VARIABLES\fR below are also supported as
environment variables.
Variables in the environment take precedence to those in configuration
files.

.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
The following variables can be set in the environment or in
.BR ubuntu\-dev\-tools (5)
configuration files.
In each case, the script\-specific variable takes precedence over the
package\-wide variable.
.TP
.BR UBUNTUTOOLS_UBUNTU_MIRROR
The default mirror.
.TP
.BR PULL_PKG_UBUNTU_MIRROR
The default mirror when using the \fBpull\-pkg\fR script.
.TP
.BR PULL_[LP|DEBIAN|PPA|UCA]_[SOURCE|DEBS|DDEBS|UDEBS]_MIRROR
The default mirror when using the associated script.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dget (1),
.BR pull\-lp\-source (1),
.BR pull\-lp\-debs (1),
.BR pull\-lp\-ddebs (1),
.BR pull\-lp\-udebs (1),
.BR pull\-debian\-source (1),
.BR pull\-debian\-debs (1),
.BR pull\-debian\-ddebs (1),
.BR pull\-debian\-udebs (1),
.BR pull\-ppa\-source (1),
.BR pull\-ppa\-debs (1),
.BR pull\-ppa\-ddebs (1),
.BR pull\-ppa\-udebs (1),
.BR pull\-uca\-source (1),
.BR pull\-uca\-debs (1),
.BR pull\-uca\-ddebs (1),
.BR pull\-uca\-udebs (1),
.BR pull\-debian\-debdiff (1),
.BR ubuntu\-dev\-tools (5)

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
\fBpull\-pkg\fR was written by Dan Streetman <ddstreet@canonical.com>,
based on the original \fBpull\-lp\-source\fR; it and this manual page
were written by Iain Lane <iain@orangesquash.org.uk>.
All are released under the GNU General Public License, version 3 or later.
